---
layout: single
title: "Moritz Engelhardt"
authorname: "Moritz Engelhardt"
collection: people
header:
  teaser: /people/ME_downsample.png
tags: phd
role: M.Sc. Biomedical Engineering
date: 2021-09-15
email: 'm.l.k.engelhardt@tudelft.nl'
twitter: mo_engels
github: moengels
googlescholar: "https://scholar.google.de/citations?user=40T7zyUAAAAJ&hl=de"
orcid: "https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4651-8214"
uri: 
collaborators: ""
theme: 
  - hd
  - smlm
  - multiplane
  - labelfree
author_profile: false
---
{% include base_path %}
{% include people_titlecard.html %}


<p align= "justify">
I am Moritz Engelhardt, a PhD student at the TU Delft Faculty Graduate School of Applied Sciences and part of the Grußmayer lab at the Department of Bionanoscience. I obtained my B.Sc. in Medical Engineering at Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-Nuremberg (Germany) in 2018. After an exchange semester at Riga Technical University (Latvia) and an R&D internship at Adidas AG, I joined the M.Sc. Biomedical Technologies programme at Eberhard-Karls University Tübingen (Germany). The prevailing interdisciplinary and neuroscience oriented environment introduced me to diverse research topics, among others neural reinforcement learning (MPI for Biological Cybernetics), rehabilitation robotics (CIN) and cellular neuroscience (Hertie Insititute for Clinical Brain Research). Inspired by latter, I conducted my thesis about the reconstruction of neural networks via transsynaptic tracer injections at the caesar-Institute Bonn (Germany) in the In Silico Brain Science Lab of Marcel Oberländer in 2021. At TU Delft I will now investigate the protein aggregation processes prevalent in neurodegenerative disease, in particular Huntigton's disease. To achieve this, I will develop and deploy a multifaceted nanoscale imaging approach to uncover intracellular protein dynamics and structural changes during the oligomerization processes.

{% include author-research-themes.html %}
{% include author-research-resources.html %}
{% include team-member-collaborators.html %}
{% include publication-list.html %}