---
layout: single
title: "Kristin Grussmayer"
authorname: "Kristin Grussmayer"
collection: people
header:
  teaser: /people/KG.jpg

image: /people/KG.jpg
tags: PI
date: 2021-04-01
cv: 
email: 'k.s.grussmayer@tudelft.nl'
googlescholar: 'https://scholar.google.de/citations?user=V6ZqAogAAAAJ&hl=de&oi=ao'
orcid: 
uri: 
collaborators: ""
theme: 
  - multiplane
  - hd
  - SOFI
  - smlm
  - automation
role: Assistant Professor at TU Delft
author_profile: false
---
{% include base_path %}
<!-- {::options parse_block_html="true" /} -->
{% include people_titlecard.html %}


<p align= "justify">
I am an assistant professor at the Department of Bionanoscience, TU Delft and the Kavli Institute of Nanoscience Delft. I studied Physics at Heidelberg University with a specialization in Biophysics. As the Heidelberg-Cornell fellow and with support from the Fulbright program, I spent a year at Cornell University. I carried out my Diploma and doctoral thesis work in the Institute for Physical Chemistry & CellNetworks Cluster of Excellence at the BioQuant Center in Heidelberg; during my doctoral studies I was as a fellow of the DFG graduate college GRK 1114. I worked on transcription factor DNA biosensors and established a method for counting molecules based on photon statistics for quantification in biological systems and material science. After my PhD in Physics (summa cum laude), I moved to Switzerland for a postdoc at the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL). As a Horizon 2020 Marie Sklodowska-Curie fellow, I became an expert in multiplane super-resolution and quantitative phase imaging and collaborated with neurobiologists. Since 2021, I lead an independent research group at TU Delft. My lab develops microscopy and analysis tools, establishes new classes of fluorescence probes, and applies them to address relevant questions in molecular and cell biology.

{% include author-research-themes.html %}
{% include author-research-resources.html %}
{% include team-member-collaborators.html %}
{% include publication-list.html %}